[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> When I see patients
going through it,
and I see them healing.
So I feel like there
must be something to it.
But I don't know whether
to believe it right away,
and that person or not.
So I leave my mind open.
>> One of the most bewildering
illnesses to you or anybody
in your family, or people
you know, is mental illness.
Somehow, if you
have a broken bone,
you can find somebody to set it.
But this is elusive
to many, many families
and to many, many people.
We have a board certified
psychiatrist with us
today by the name
of Dr. Shakuntala
Modi, who has written a
very controversial book.
No one else is helping.
Her book is called
"Remarkable Healings."
And I think-- I'd like to ask
you to keep an open mind when
you watch this show because
it's going to be different
than you imagined.
Dr. Modi, thank
you very, very much
for coming on
"Wisdom" television.
And I want to thank you
very much for writing
such a remarkable book
called "Remarkable Healings,"
because it's very different than
anything I've ever read before.
>> Yes.
>> You are a board
certified psychiatrist,
a medical doctor--
with classical training?
>> Yes.
>> What happened in your life?
>> See, when I was doing
my psychiatric residency,
I at times felt very discouraged
because all the treatment
methods which were available
to us didn't work on every
patient.
Medicine works on some people.
It does correct the
chemical imbalance,
but then it doesn't really cure.
It just colors up the problem.
And people keep on--
continue to have symptoms.
As soon as they
start the medicine,
they continue to
have the problems.
Psychotherapy works but
not in every patient.
And also, with psychotherapy,
when we do the psychotherapy,
patients are dealing with their
conscious mind, with what they
know and understand
their problems
consciously and
intellectually and rationally.
So they are dealing with
the conscious mind only.
What I'm understanding
is the reasons
for our problems are in
our subconscious mind.
We may not know it
consciously, but it's there.
And I learned that
with hypnotherapy,
if I allow a patient to tap
into their subconscious mind,
they can find the source
of their problems.
And the subconscious
mind can also
provide the solution
and even the healing.
I prescribed the medicine,
very little medicine, only
in psychotic patients or when
people are severely depressed.
Just with these therapies,
without much medication,
people heal from head to toe.
Any symptoms can go away.
What Is hypnotherapy?
Hypnotherapy is--
hypnosis is a tool,
and we use hypnosis
as a tool in therapy.
And it is called hypnotherapy.
And people have a lot of
misconceptions about hypnosis.
All hypnosis is is a state
of focus concentration.
We use this state of hypnosis
every day, several times a day
in our life, every day.
Some of the examples
of day-to-day hypnosis
is like when we are
driving on a highway,
and we're driving and driving.
We're so focused
on the road, and we
forget how many
streets we have crossed
or how long we have driven.
And that is a state of hypnosis.
And sometimes we get
someplace, and we don't
remember how we got there.
>> Exactly, and we reach
to our destination and say,
how did I get here?
I forgot.
Other times, when we are
watching a television
show, and we are so
absorbed in the story
that there may be a group
of people behind us,
around us talking out loud.
We know they're there, but we
haven't heard a single word.
That is a state of hypnosis.
Similarly, when we are reading
a book or listening to music,
we are absorbed in it, and
we are not paying attention
to anything else.
Another example is when
people are fantasizing,
they are not asleep,
not unconscious,
but they are focusing on
whatever they're fantasizing.
That is a state of hypnosis.
>> How do you do this?
>> How do I do what?
Do what?
>> Hypnosis.
>> Oh, OK.
There are different ways.
That are many
hypnosis techniques
which therapists can use.
Personally, I like to use--
when people come to my office,
often they are
feeling or sensing
some emotional feelings,
some physical symptoms.
Or they, sometimes,
when I do the interview,
they repeat certain
phrases over and over,
certain words, certain phrases.
And all I ask them
during the session
is focus on your thoughts.
Focus on those words.
Repeat those words.
>> Like what words?
>> Let's say, oh, when
I'm in his presence,
he makes me feel
like I'm nothing.
I feel like a prisoner
in his presence,
or whatever the issues
they're dealing with.
>> It's like a circular--
>> Yes.
Or I'm too fat.
I can never look good again.
I'm just not good enough.
>> I'm hopeless.
>> Yeah.
I'm not good enough for him,
or I cannot do anything right
for him.
And they're going over and
over with the same feelings.
Or sometimes if they're having
some physical symptoms--
I'm feeling kind of dizzy,
I'm having palpitations.
or I'm feeling chest
pain, having a headache.
Or I feel like I'm
being tied down,
or I'm feeling
numbness in my hand,
and I just ask them,
focus on those feelings.
Let those feelings take you back
to the source of the problem.
>> Ah, this is different.
>> And see, what it is is, when
people are in hypnosis are when
we ask them to focus
on the feelings.
And as they are focusing,
they're already in hypnosis.
>> So you don't have to be out.
>> No.
And see, the misconception
about hypnosis
is people think in hypnosis
people are out of control,
unconscious, or they're asleep.
Now the states I described
to you, day-to-day hypnosis,
we are not unconscious
when we are driving.
We are not unconscious when we
are watching a television show
or reading a book.
But we are in a
state of hypnosis.
>> Are people afraid of this?
>> Yes, because of
the misconceptions.
So first thing I do, the second
session after the history
and all that, is we talk about
hypnosis, the misconception.
What is their idea
about hypnosis?
And then I help them in
understanding what it really is
and what they will experience
here, that I don't do--
I don't give them
any suggestions
during the sessions.
I ask them to focus
on their feelings.
Let those feelings take you back
to the source of the problem.
>> When it first started?
>> Yes.
>> Now this is the
interesting part.
What have you found, then?
>> Amazing things.
For a long time, I did
psychotherapy, a combination
of therapies, because
I learned everything,
because not every patient
is good for psychotherapy.
You cannot do traditional
psychotherapy with them.
You cannot use medication
with every patient,
so we have to use
combination of therapies.
And hypnotherapy
is one technique
I used often,
because we can really
find the source of the problem.
But till about 13
years ago, I had
one patient who came with
severe claustrophobia.
She had depression
for a long time.
And she also described having
some severe panic attacks
several times a day.
And during these
panic attacks, she
described having shortness of
breath, palpitation, dizziness,
and fear of dying.
But at the same time, she
said, I know it sounds funny.
I'm afraid of dying, but
I'm afraid I cannot die--
I will not be able to die.
And she said, I know
it sounds crazy,
but that's the way I feel.
And I am the kind
of psychiatrist
who doesn't like to put her
interpretation on the patients,
what they are saying.
It's like, who am I to tell this
patient what they are feeling.
So I just ask.
And one session,
I was asking her,
I said, when was the last
time you had panic attack?
And all of a sudden, she
started gasping for breath.
And she said, Doctor,
I'm having one now,
and she was having
full-blown panic attack.
So I said, good,
close your eyes.
Feel the full-blown
panic attack.
Feel every feeling, and let
those feelings take you back
to the source of the problem.
And as I was asking
her, I was in my mind
thinking maybe she'll go back
to the younger age, when she was
locked in the attic
or basement or closet,
because these are the
stories which came before.
But instead, she instantly
said, Doctor, I'm
in another time, another life.
I'm a different person.
I'm a little girl-- a young
girl, and I'm in a coffin.
People think I'm dead,
but I'm still alive,
and what if they close
the lid, and I cannot die?
[GASPS] What am I going to do?
Can you understand the symptoms?
The fear of closing the lid
and not being able to breathe.
>> That must've been a
pretty big shock to you
as a classically
trained psychiatrist,
to have somebody
go to a past life.
>> Yeah, none of my patients
before went in a past life--
>> Did you believe
in past lives?
>> My religion believes in it,
but I am the kind of person--
it's like beliefs are beliefs.
I don't know whether
it is real or not.
So I don't dismiss them, but I
don't live with that every day,
day by day.
>> But you certainly didn't
expect a patient to go
to a past life?
>> No.
And when this one went,
I didn't know what to do.
So like a good psychiatrist,
I let her continue the story.
Who am I to question
her story right now?
So I let her describe me,
tell me what happens next.
And she said they did close
the lid of the coffin,
and she died feeling short
of breath, fear of dying,
but at the same time had
the fear that you will not
be able to die.
So same feelings, symptoms
which she was describing before
during the first interview,
she was feeling at that moment.
>> Wow.
We're talking to Dr. Modi, who
has written a remarkable book.
And oddly enough, it's
called "Remarkable Healings--
A Psychiatrist Discovers
Unsuspected Roots
of Mental and Physical Illness.
We have much more to tell
you about, so stay with us.
We'll be right back.
We're talking to Dr.
Shakuntala Modi, who is
a board certified psychiatrist.
And she has written a book
called "Remarkable Healings,"
and it's pretty remarkable.
To read this book, you would
think that you were part
of what a lot of people call
the "woo-woo consciousness
movement."
But this is not
true at all is it?
>> No.
It is accidentally
I discovered this.
It has nothing to do with that.
>> Do you believe it?
>> When I see patients
going through it,
and I see them healing.
So I feel like there
must be something to it.
But I don't know whether
to believe it right away,
and that person or not.
So I leave my mind open.
>> But at the
beginning of the show,
I asked the audience to
please keep their mind open
because there are some startling
things that you have to say
here.
When they get back
to the place where
she has now somehow flipped
back into another life,
and she's in this
coffin, how does that
cure her in the present?
>> OK.
When she described
the feelings when
they closed the lid and
her last thoughts-- the way
it works with the
past life trauma
is what people describe is that
we have a soul within us, which
is a piece of God.
And when the body dies,
the soul doesn't die.
It survives.
It has all the memories,
feelings, and experiences.
So let's say somebody died in
a past life, like this lady.
And she died with
coffin being closed,
is still alive, and is
struggling with her breathing
and other things.
So the last thoughts,
I cannot breathe.
At the same time, the fear,
what if they close the lid?
I cannot die.
Our last thoughts, promises,
unresolved promises,
unresolved physical
symptoms, mental symptoms,
emotional symptoms,
they come back
with the soul in this life.
And those feelings
are never resolved,
so people start feeling
that in their physical body.
And I think this patient
must have seen somebody
in a coffin in a funeral home,
and it triggers the memories
of that experience.
Now unless we resolve those
feelings, medicine cannot help,
just at this conscious level,
psychotherapy cannot help.
The trauma has to be resolved.
>> But do you do dissolve the
trauma by talking about it
as though it's happening now?
>> Yes, by recalling, going back
to the source, recalling it,
reliving it, releasing it,
and resolving the issue.
And if there is somebody
that did harm to the person,
they have to forgive the person.
And then there is lot
more things happen,
like missing the soul
parts, that the trauma will
lose pieces of our soul.
And so we have to
bring that back.
It's very extensive area.
>> What do you mean, we
lose pieces of our soul?
>> OK, what patients under
hypnosis describe is that,
as I described the soul within
us, piece of God within us.
And with trauma, whether it is
physical, emotional, mental,
or spiritual, our
soul fragments,
and the pieces come out.
Now some of the soul parts
can remain in the body.
And these are the
ones people see
as the little one,
themselves at that age,
at the age when the
trauma occurred.
They look exactly the same.
They feel the same as
they felt at that time.
Other times, they can go
to outside of her body.
They can go to a loved one.
They can go to friend.
They can go to abuser,
in case of abuse.
>> When people talk about
giving themselves away?
Is that what it means?
>> See how many times
we talk emotionally.
Like when my daughter left, I
felt she took a piece of me.
Or, when my husband died, I
felt like I died with him,
or so many--
>> Or you hear people say,
something just went out of me.
>> Yes.
>> I mean, I've heard
many people say that.
>> I feel like I'm empty inside.
I feel like something
is missing from me.
And this is what we are
talking at subconscious level
is it's my piece is missing.
>> And does that make us sick?
>> Does that make them sick?
>> Yeah.
>> Yes.
See, what happens is,
let's say, somebody
was sexually abused
in this lifetime
and gone through
tremendous trauma.
Every time the abuse
happens, the little one's--
the soul fragments separates
and stays in the body.
They're still suffering
with those emotions.
But they are separate, so the
main soul, or main personality,
may not remember the trauma
because that emotional part is
separated from the main
soul, or main personality.
So they may not have any
effect all their life.
Or maybe occasionally,
the things
pop up in the mind, the
memories, the trauma.
Or they may not remember at all.
But oftentimes, it
does affect them,
because the part is
separated from the main part
of your soul.
>> How do you get it back?
>> Usually, people can see
when we do the therapy.
I ask them to look inside.
And after a while, they
are able to see their soul.
They're able to see
those little ones.
And we talk to them.
No matter what I do, whether
it's a past life regression
therapy, or the soul fragment.
We work with that.
We have to do psychotherapy
with those little ones,
the inner child, which we call.
>> But the people
who have the pieces?
>> Yeah.
>> You would have to actually
deal with that trauma.
These are the little ones.
They look like little
kids at that age
when the trauma happened.
So we have to talk to them.
We have to do therapy
with them, help them
in resolving their trauma,
cleanse them, heal them,
fill them with light.
>> You're like an Indian shaman.
>> [CHUCKLES] I don't
know what they do, but--
>> Well, they do
soul retrievals.
>> Shamans do soul
retrievals, right.
>> That's the type of thing.
So it's very surprising to see
a board certified psychiatrist
talking about--
what you're really doing is
soul retrievals, aren't you?
>> In a way, yes.
But see, I learn just
by asking questions.
As I good psychiatrist, all--
>> This was not your
mindset at all before.
>> No.
It is not part of my training.
It's not part of my-- except
the past life in reincarnation,
nothing is part of my
religious belief system.
This is all just by asking
questions to the patients
under hypnosis.
And the information came
through their subconscious mind,
and just dealing with
it, and learning from it.
>> One of the things that you
keep saying in the book is,
don't ask me whether
I even believe this.
The only thing you should
ask me is, does this work?
>> Yes.
>> And the answer is yes.
It works.
So when somebody's heart
has been given away,
and I can see--
I think anyone who is
watching this program
has had that experience
of feeling they have
lost something of themselves.
>> Yes.
>> How do you get it back?
>> Usually, I use angelic help.
Under hypnosis,
people often describe
having angels, especially
when I work with the spirits.
And they describe the
light coming from heaven,
and they describe angelic
beings in the heaven.
And a lot of information
and knowledge
which I have written in
the book, it came directly
by asking these beings,
what is the reality?
What do we need to do?
And they say, we are
always here to help you,
but you have to ask.
And so what I ask is I ask the
angelic beings to take this--
or if my part is with
somebody, bring my part back.
Then after they
did find the part,
we have to cleanse it, heal it,
fill it with love and light.
That does the healing
of the soul part,
and then integrate
it with the ---
>> Are angels part
of your heritage?
>> No.
>> I mean, you're a strange
character for a board certified
psychiatrist, also who comes
from an Indian background.
>> Right.
>> I mean, none of these things
are in your consciousness
to start with at all.
>> No.
>> So everything is what
you've discovered through
your patients.
>> Yes.
And it felt right,
for some reason.
>> Well, truth is
truth, isn't it?
>> Yeah.
And because people
healed, and nothing
we have so far heals
people like that.
>> How did you happen
to talk to the angels?
>> OK, after I discovered
about the past life traumas,
how they cause the
problem for people,
I started using this technique.
And I found out many
people across the country
are doing what they call "past
life regression therapy."
So I started doing
this therapy and people
started healing--
anything from head to toe,
they started healing
with it, whether it's
physical, emotional, or mental.
So one day, I saw a patient
who had severe depression
for several months.
And she also had abdominal pain,
and she had all the tests done.
They were all negative.
She was taking medicine, but
nothing was helping at all.
So one day, she asked--
she knew that I do hypnotherapy.
So she said, Doctor, would you
like to try hypnotherapy on me
to find out what's the cause?
So I said, OK.
And I asked her again to
focus on her symptoms.
Let those feelings take you back
to the source of the problem.
Now when I ask people to go
to the source of the problem,
they can go anywhere.
I have no idea what
they will tell me.
>> You don't know
where they're going.
>> They can go to the trauma
at this time in the younger age
in this life.
They can go to the birth trauma.
They can go to the
trauma in the womb.
And what happens is fetuses
have conscious awareness.
They're aware of the
mother's feeling.
And everything Mother is
feeling and experiencing,
they absorb it as
their own feelings.
>> This is the most fascinating
thing in the entire world.
>> We are shifting from the ---
>> We've been talking here
to Dr. Shakuntala Modi,
who has written a book
called "Remarkable Healings."
It's very different than
any book I have ever
read on psychological healing,
and especially by a classically
trained psychiatrist.
I think you'll find
it very interesting.
But as I always tell
you on this show,
we bring you
miracles around here.
Keep coming back.
[MUSIC PLAYING]